---
composer: "Stemke Ash"
composition: "Currents"
date: 2014
performers: "Eva Amsler, flute; Kelsey Paquin, clarinet; Anthony Poehailos, bass clarinet; Elizabeth King, soprano saxophone; Samantha Gowen and Bobby Malone, horns; Nicole Mann, bass; Keith Dodson, conductor"
---
**Ash Stemke** (b. 1991) "simply composes music he wants to hear, because it is beautiful, spouts no unpleasant theories, and manages nonetheless to avoid the too-well-known and trite." (Steven Kruger, New York Arts). Aesthetically, Ash's music is unified through elements of symmetry (proportion, balance, and self-similarity) and trajectory (teleology, argumentativeness, and transformation). In 2020, his 2014 film score to Georges Melies silent film _Le Voyage dans la Lune_ will be sent on a literal trajectory 238,900-mile journey to the moon (!) as part of Carnegie-Mellon University's MoonArk project. Ash recently won first prize in the San Francisco Choral Artists' New Voices Project and has had music programmed by organizations such as the Boston New Music Initiative, New Music on the Bayou, and NSEME. Ash is currently a doctoral candidate (ABD) at Florida State University, where he studies composition with Clifton Callender and Ellen Taaffe Zwilich. www.ashstemke.com
|||
I. Freshwater; II. Saltwater; III. To New Shores; The undulating feeling of push-and-pull found in river and ocean waters extends into every aspect of **_Currents_**: rhythmic vigor, metrical drive, harmonic tension, and melodic fluidity.  Inspired by the interconnectivity of all bodies of water, _Currents_ follows a coursing river in its downhill surge, where it reaches a placid sea before flowing on "to new shores."