---
composer: "Haas Georg Friedrich"
composition: "de terrae fine"
date: 2001
performers: "Ben Sung, violin"
notes: 
---
**Georg Friedrich Haas** has been associated with Ricordi Berlin since autumn 2016. He has taught at the University of the Arts in Graz (lastly as associate professor) and at the Music Academy in Basel. In 2013 he was appointed professor of music at Columbia University in New York and since then has taught composition there. Haas feels both rooted in the European tradition and strongly in uenced by the aesthetic freedom of American composers like Charles Ives, Harry Partch, John Cage and James Tenney. He also has repeatedly made reference to the musical mysticism of the composers Giacinto Scelsi and Ivan Wyschnegradsky. In a survey published in the January 2017 issue of the Italian music periodical Classic Voice, 100 named experts were asked to choose “the most beautiful music composed since 2000.” By a wide margin, they awarded  first place to Haas. His wide-ranging output, including numerous works for large orchestra, for chamber orchestra, instrumental concertos, eight operas, ten string quartets, a variety of other chamber music and vocal works etc., is constantly  nding new audiences worldwide – and not only at special new music events; his compositions are also reaching a traditionally schooled public. Haas has devoted his work to the utopian ideal (not 100% attainable) of creating a new music that is both expressive and mellifluous – not despite but because of the fact that it is new.
|||

“At the end of the earth.” (_**de terrae fine**_) Haas wrote the piece at a house in south-west Ireland, looking out at the Atlantic, but the sense of the title is more than geographical. The violinist, and the violin, are under limit conditions, pressed to extremes. Intervals involving quarter-tones are the norm; there are also sixth-tone intervals and even eighth-tone fluctuations, as well as intervals to be played in just intonation. Meanwhile, the music sets out within cramped spaces. There is a line that budges at first just within the instrument’s bottom register, and occasional alternations to pizzicato do not widen the scope. High harmonics seem no more than punctuation marks, and a sudden luminous sound — a just-tuned major third — soon gives way to intense discords of a seriously minor second (i.e. two notes a quarter-tone apart). However, more light comes from arpeggios, and the line starts to rise and goes on rising. There are also new events, including, about two-thirds of the way through the seventeen-minute piece, a flow of just-tuned thirds, “as if coming from another world,” as the marking has it. The intervals tighten as before, but the music has been set in a new direction, and there is no stopping it — not even with a noisy recollection of its original line — until it is done.

-- _Paul Griffiths_