---
composer: "Blessinger Martin"
composition: "Exordium et Infra Furorem"
date: 2016
performers: "Ben Sung, violin"
---
**Martin Blessinger** is an Associate Professor of Music at Texas Christian University. He holds a D.M. in music composition from the Florida State University, where he was a University Research Fellow, studying with Ladislav Kubik and Ellen Taaffe Zwilich. He received undergraduate and master's degrees from SUNY at Stony Brook, studying with Sheila Silver and Perry Goldstein. Prior to arriving TCU, he worked as a Lecturer in Music Theory at Ithaca College. His works have been performed around the country and abroad by numerous professional and collegiate ensembles. Further, he has won awards from the Diana Barnhart American Song Competition (for Cradle Song), the Eppes String Quartet Competition (for Postcard from the Americas), the Illinois Wesleyan University Young Composers Competition (for Fanfare for Brass Quintet), the NACUSA Young Composers Competition (for Duo for Saxophone and Piano), and ASCAP. His music is published by Reed Music and C. Alan Publications.|||**_Exordium et Infra Furorem_** (roughly ìIntroduction and In a State of Furyî) is a virtuosic two-movement work for solo violin. The first movement, Exordium, began its life as a flute etude. As my concept of the piece developed, it became clear that the musical material was not appropriate for the etude project, and so I decided to adapt it for solo violin. The title of this movement is Latin for "beginning" or "introductionî to capture the prelude-like atmosphere of the music. The second movement, Infra Furorem, is fast-moving and aggressive, featuring tempestuously shifting emotions. I wrote this movement as a counterbalance to the stoicism and reserved stateliness of the first.