---
composer: "Yamamoto Nicholas"
composition: "Fixed Objects on a Moving Plane"
date: 2017
performers: "fixed media"
---
**Nicholas Yamamoto** (b. 1995) is a composer of acoustic and electroacoustic music. He is interested in the abstraction and juxtaposition of sound to transform aural image, subject, and environment. His work draws from a variety of social, physical, and aural experiences that can be encountered both inside and outside of the concert hall to create personal, evocative, and intense musical experiences. Recent compositions explore the connection between the performer, the audience, and their environment. This exploration stems from a multi-faceted career as a theatre collaborator and technician, most recently producing a work for James Turrellís Twilight Epiphany Skyspace at Rice University titled, ìa meditation on turrellî. Other recent works include dis.integrations for saxophone, written for the Moody Center for the Artsí installation of Josiah McElhenyís Island Universe, utilizing the unique acoustic qualities of the gallery. He is a graduate of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.|||**_Fixed Objects on a Moving Plane_** is an acousmatic composition designed for quadraphonic performance. This composition emphasizes the absence of visual data in order to create a spatially-flexible sonic environment. I seek to abstract the visual and physical identity of objects to illuminate their intrinsic musical properties. The sonic environment fluctuates to bring life and breath to the sound world, just as our own environments are constantly breathing and changing.