---
composer: "Nez Ketty"
composition: "four scenes for Juliet"
date: 2016
performers: "Richard Clary, conductor"
---
Composer/pianist **Ketty Nez** joined the Boston University in 2005, after teaching for two years at the University of Iowa. Her folk opera, "The Fiddler and the Old Woman of Rumelia," was premiered in 2011 and staged in 2012, by the Xanthos and Juventas Ensembles, respectively. CD's include "Listen to a Wonder Never Heard Before!" by Albany Records, and thresholds, by Ravello Records. Her chamber opera "An Opera in Devolution: Drama in 540 Seconds," was premiered at the 2003 Munich Festival A•DEvantgarde. Ketty studied at IRCAM in 1998-9, after working with Louis Andriessen. Current projects include the CD release of "four scenes for Juliet" by the BU Wind Ensemble, and "Lina and the Wolf," an opera on the life of Lina Prokofiev (based on the book "Lina and Serge: The Love and Wars of Lina Prokofiev," by Simon Morrison). Ketty holds a Ph.D. from UC Berkeley, a master's from the Eastman School of Music, and bachelor's degrees from the Curtis Institute of Music, and Bryn Mawr College.
|||
Written in the summer of 2016 during the time I was composing "Lina and the Wolf" (an opera based on the life story of Lina Prokofiev), **_four scenes for Juliet_** takes as inspiration the story of Romeo and Juliet. The piece's four large sections allude to scenes of "anticipation," "balcony," "echo," and "hush." "Echo" and "hush" began as arias from the opera. "Balcony" treats an abstraction of the contour of one of the love themes from Prokofiev's ballet "Romeo and Juliet." In general, musical textures are juxtaposed, overlapped, and fused in a Mondrian-like manner, with the intention of allowing the listener to perceive simultaneous streams of music (as if looking through scrims on a stage). The work was commissioned by David Martins and the Boston University Wind Ensemble, and premiered by these artists on February 16, 2017, and professionally recorded soon after.