---
composer: "Chua Jon Lin"
composition: "Huis clos"
date: 2016
performers: "Tatiana Gorbunova, piano"
---
Born in Singapore, **Jon Lin Chua** is a double major in composition and music theory in Eastman School of Music as a Presser Scholar, and also a recipient of the Howard Hanson Scholarship, Simon Rose Scholarship, and the National Arts Council of Singapore Arts Scholarship (Undergraduate). She is also a recipient of the Louis Lane Award (2016) and the Bernard Rogers Memorial Prize (2015). Her teachers in composition include Oliver Schneller, Ricardo Zohn-Muldoon, Robert Morris, David Liptak, and Robert Casteels. She was appointed as a composition fellow of the MusicaNova Orchestra based in Phoenix, Arizona for the 2015-2016 season. Other groups she has worked with include the Southeastern Ensemble for Today’s and Tomorrow’s Sounds (SETTS), the Singapore Chinese Orchestra, the Guitar Ensemble of the National University of Singapore, the Zen Ensemble, and has premiered works in festivals such as the National University of Singapore Arts Festival (2012), and the Women in Music Festival (2014).

|||

**_Huis clos_** is piece for solo piano, inspired by Jean-Paul Sartre’s play of the same title. The entire play takes place in a single room and features only four characters. As the play unfolds, the audience realizes that three of the characters have died and are in Hell. They each secretly ponder upon the sort of severe torture that awaits them, and come to realize that each simultaneously serves as tormentor and victim to one another in a hell sculpted simply by the gaze of the Other, a torture worse than all physical brutality. Like the play, the tension in the music lies deep beneath the surface with the occasional outburst. The piece opens with a repeated figure that comes to dominate the musical texture. Although there is a fair amount of activity on the musical surface, it gradually breaks down, and the overall trajectory of the piece is static, reflecting the stifling vapidity found in most of the play’s dialogue that thinly veil the weighty philosophical themes within.