---
composer: "Zare Roger"
composition: "Inferno"
date: 2014
performers: "Aaron King Vaughn, conductor"
---
**Roger Zare** has been praised for his ìenviable grasp of orchestrationî (New York Times) and for writing music with ìformal clarity and an alluringly mercurial surface.î Often inspired by science, nature, and mythology, his works have been performed across the United States and on five continents by such musicians and ensembles as the American Composers Orchestra, the Minnesota Orchestra, Boston Musica Viva, the Donald Sinta Quartet, violinist Cho-Liang Lin, and clarinetist Alexander Fiterstein. Zareís awards include the ASCAP Nissim Prize, three BMI Student Composer Awards, an ASCAP Morton Gould award, the 2008 ACO Underwood Commission, a Copland House Residency Award, and a Charles Ives Scholarship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Zare holds degrees from the University of Michigan, the Peabody Conservatory, and the University of Southern California. Zare currently serves as an instructional assistant professor of music theory and composition at Illinois State University.|||**_Inferno_** describes the famous fate of the Phoenix bird ñ its death and rebirth by fire. It begins with a frenzied build that yields to a moto perpetuo theme of running 16th notes, ducking and dodging and heating up. Eventually, it explodes into a rhythmically charged section, punctuated by col legno strings and a syncopated interplay between brass and winds. The running moto perpetuo idea returns after a sizzling encounter with harmon-muted brass, and proceeds to a massive chorale. From this point until the end, the music swirls and burns as the Phoenix bird is engulfed in an out-of-control blaze of glory.