---
composer: "Morris Robert"
composition: "Inner Voices"
date: 2016
performers: "Read Gainsford, piano"
---
**Robert Morris** is Professor of Composition at the Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester, where he has taught for the last thirty-six years. In addition to concert music, Morris has written electronic/computer and improvisational music, and pieces to be played out of doors. He is also known as a writer on topics in music theory, aesthetics, and Indian music Morris is the recipient of grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, the A. Whitney Griswald Foundation, the American Music Center, the Hanson Institute of American Music, and the American Council of Learned Societies. He has been guest composer at many festivals and series of new music, most recently: New Music Festival, MidAmerican Center for Contemporary Music (Bowling Green State University, 2010), New Music on the Point (2015), The University of South Florida at Tampa 2016 New Music Cnosortium. A four-concert festival of his music was held at Spectrum in New York in September of 2016.|||**_Inner Voices_** was written for my long time friend Richard Becker, composer, pianist, composer, and poet. We were classmates in our undergraduate years at the Eastman School of Music. Fifty years later, we reconnected at the last New Music Consortium at USF in 2016. Inner Voices is introspective, elegiac, and nuanced--qualities I especially admire in Richard's playing. This six minute composition is made like a poem with structural rhymes, assonances, and stanzas, starting simply but eventually becoming complex and ramified and sound and sense--like a theme and variations, but with not much distinction between the theme and the variations.