---
composer: "Nez Ketty"
composition: "in transit"
date: 2009
performers: "Klaudia Szlachta, violin; Ketty Nez, piano"
---
Composer/pianist **Ketty Nez** joined the Boston University School of Music in 2005, after teaching for two years at the University of Iowa. Her folk opera, *The Fiddler and the Old Woman of Rumelia*, was premiered 2011 by Xanthos Ensemble, and staged by the Juventas Ensemble in 2012. Ketty's portrait CD, *Listen to a Wonder Never Heard Before!*, was released in 2010 by Albany Records, and her piano concerto, *thresholds*, with the Boston University Wind Ensemble, was released by Ravello Records in 2013. Ketty completed a residence of several months at the Ecole Nationale de Musique in Montbeliard, France, prior to the premiere of her chamber opera *An Opera in Devolution: Drama in 540 Seconds*, at the 2003 Seventh Festival A•Devantgarde in Munich. Ketty studied at IRCAM in 1998-9, after working for two years in Amsterdam with Louis Andriessen. Current projects include Lina and the Wolf, an opera on the life of Lina Prokofiev, based on the book *Lina and Serge* by Simon Morrison.

|||

Written during the summer of 2009, **_in transit_** was inspired by Béla Bartók’s ethnomusicological research on the music of various cultures of East Europe and Asia Minor. I was drawn not only to the sheer sonic qualities of the songs themselves, but also by the fact that every song is a story. Melodic material is based on Bartók’s annotations of a Turkish folksong from Asia Minor: “how should I praise such a beauty: she mingled her hair with golden twine.” In a brusque manner, eventually dominating the musical discourse, are quotations of my own setting of a Bosnian folksong, "The Old Mother of Dzhaferbeg." The text of this second song recounts the lurid tale of a jealous old mother wrongly accusing her beautiful daughter-in-law of an affair, and the resulting murder of the innocent woman by the enraged husband. My setting featured the textures of the "kemence" fiddle accompaniment in addition to the vocal line. The piano mimics the "kemence," and the (Western) violin wailing voices.