---
composer: "Guthrie Ian Evans"
composition: "Lavelatia"
date: 2018
performers: "Eirene Duo: Christina Lai and Xinshuang Jin, pianos"
---
**Ian Evans Guthrie** is emerging as a tour-de-force composer and pianist. He recently won 1st prize in the Arcady Composition Competition, 2nd place in the American Prize-Chamber Music Division (the only 2017 vocal work to receive recognition recognition in this category), and 2nd prize in the Great Composers Competition: Music of America, in addition to his many other prizes and recognitions from ASCAP, SCI, MTNA, NFMC, and other national and regional music organizations and clubs. In addition, many of his works have been performed publicly around the world by the Indaco String Quartet, fEARnoMUSIC, Metropolitan Youth Symphony, Northwest Symphony Orchestra, Moore Philharmonic Orchestra, Erik Drescher, Sarah Dunham, and others, and featured at festivals internationally. Guthrie is a doctoral student at Florida State University, where his teachers include Mark Wingate, Ellen Zwilich, and (formerly) Ladislav Kubik.
|||
I began sketching **_Lavelatla_** in early Fall 2017 as ideas for orchestra or two pianos. All I knew about the sketch was that it could appropriate my interests in world music, particularly that of the Caribbean. This project came into fruition well after I approached my colleague Xinshuang Jin about my interest in writing a work for two pianos, when she commissioned me to compose such a work in April 2018. I then took my knowledge of electronic music, world, music, spatialization, acoustics, and orchestration to create an innovative piano duet imitating the many effects available in these fields, such as panning, Shepard tones, unusual staging, spectralism, and other effects that have been relatively unexplored in piano literature. Considering the fiery nature and other associations conceived with the sketches and my interest in Native American names for landmarks, I settled with the title _Lavelatla_ (meaning ìSmoking Mountainî)óthe Cowlitz tribe's name for Mount Saint Helens.