---
composer: "Smith Rob"
composition: "Morse Code Pop"
date: 2015
performers: "Eon Saxophone Quartet: Eric Stults, soprano saxophone; Dawson Coleman, alto saxophone; Joel Ferst, tenor saxophone; Zachary McKee, baritone saxophone"
---
The innovative and highly energetic music of **Rob Smith** is frequently performed throughout the United States and abroad. His music has received numerous awards, including those from the Aaron Copland House, ASCAP and the National Band Association. Commissions have come from the Texas Music Festival Orchestra, the New York Youth Symphony Chamber Music Program, the American Composers Forum, and many university wind ensembles, among others. In 1997, he was the recipient of a Fulbright Grant to Australia, which led to a teaching position at the University of Wollongong in 1998. From 2003-2014 he served as one of the artistic directors of Musiqa, a contemporary chamber ensemble in Houston. Currently, he teaches at the University of Houstonís Moores School of Music where he is Associate Professor of Music Composition and Director of the AURA Contemporary Ensemble. Boosey & Hawkes, Carl Fischer, C-Alan Publications, and Skitter Music Publications publish his music. http://robsmithcomposer.com|||**_Morse Code Pop_** uses a syncopated theme that mimics the sound of a Morse code signal. Originally composed as a duet for alto and baritone saxophone for Valerie Vidal and Elizabeth Owsijuk, the work was subsequently arranged for soprano and alto saxophone duo, at the request of Elizabeth Rosinbum and Jessica Voigt for a performance at the 2015 World Saxophone Congress in Strasbourg, and saxophone quartet, at the request of Dan Gelok, the saxophone professor at the University of Houston, Moores School of Music, for a performance at the 2016 Texas Music Educators Association annual conference.