---
composer: "Keeling Joshua"
composition: "Namandu"
date: 2018
performers: "Geoff Deibel, performer; interactive media"
---
**Joshua Keeling** is an adventurous voice in new music, writing works for chamber ensembles, orchestra, wind ensemble, electroacoustic compositions, and other media. He was awarded first prize in the Beyer Awards from the National Federation of Music Clubs. His music has been performed both nationally and internationally at a number of venues including: the World Saxophone Congress, North American Saxophone Alliance National Conference, Red Note New Music Festival, the Society of Electro-Acoustic Music (SEAMUS) National Conference, the Toronto Electroacoustic Symposium, the San Francisco Festival of Contemporary Music, and many others. He received his D.M. from Florida State University. Additionally, he has studied at the University of Texas at Austin (M.M.), the Hochschule f¸r Musik Carl Maria von Weber (Dresden, Germany) and Belmont University. Dr. Keeling has taught at Illinois State University, Illinois Wesleyan University, and Collin College. Visit joshuakeeling.org to learn more.
|||
**_—amand˙_** is the creator god of the Guarani people. In their folklore, —amand˙ created himself out of the darkness and then proceeded to create the world. From the beginning, the Hummingbird was present, and sustained and refreshed —amand˙ as he created. "Our Father, the Absolute First created himself from the primordial darkness. He created the divine soles of his feet, His small round throne. He created them as he grew in the primordial darkness. Flowers adorned his divine feathered headdress like drops of dew; And amidst the flowers of his sacred feathered crown Hummingbird, the primeval bird, gamboled and flew. Even while our first Father created his own divine body, He existed in the midst of the primordial winds. Before he conceived his future earthly dwelling, before he conceived his future heavens, his future earth ó Hummingbird refreshed his mouth. It was Hummingbird who sustained —amand˙ with the fruits of paradise.