---
composer: "Houston Aaron"
composition: "Scuttle Buttin'"
date: 2018
performers: "Amy Selkirk, oboe; Amy Humberd, clarinet; Alex Charles, bassoon; Camilla Caldwell and Ashtin Johnson, violins; Alan Elkins, viola; Holden Bitner, cello; Nicole Mann, bass; Aaron Vaughn, conductor"
---
**Aaron Houston** Aaron Houston composes music that draws from the diverse influences of the American musical language for the everyday concert audience. His eclectic influencesófrom rock music to folk tunes, chorales, and everything in betweenócan be heard in his use of harmonies and intuitive melodic writing. Taking inspiration from Wagner and Guns Ní Roses, his composition Reconciliation (2017) juxtaposes a variety of these influences against each other before finding resolution in an ever-ascending statement of a Bach chorale. Similarly, Scuttle Buttiní (2018), was inspired by the sounds of Texas Blues legend Stevie Ray Vaughan and recalls the sounds of a young guitarist learning to mimic the playing of Stevie Ray Vaughan. Currently, Aaron is pursuing his DM in Composition at Florida State University where he has studied with Stephen Montague, Ellen Taafe Zwilich, and the late Ladislav Kubik as the recipient of the Ellen Taaffe Zwilich Fellowship for orchestral composition.
|||
When asked to compose a piece which responded in some way to folk songs or storytelling, I was immediately excited. Remembering all the times in middle school and high school sitting in front of a TV watching an old VHS tape of live Stevie Ray Vaughan concerts quickly sparked the inspiration for this composition. While learning to play guitar, I would sit and watch that VHS tape and hope I would one day be able to play like the man who helped define what Texas blues was for me (spoiler alert: I canít play guitar like Stevie Ray Vaughan). Scuttle Buttiní is a fast-paced, highly energetic work inspired by the tune from Stevie Ray Vaughan of the same name. A ìscuttle buttî is an old term for a water cooler and ìscuttle buttiníî is an old term for gossiping around the water cooleróhow stories get told a lot in the South. Scuttle Buttiní is full of quotations from blues riffs, harmonies which evoke a jazz-based sound, and aggressively picked and slapped bass to mimic the sounds of a Texas blues band.