---
composer: "Štochl Ondřej"
composition: "Šeptet (7/whispers)"
date: 2014
performers: "Hank Lundrum, clarinet; Petra Bubanja and Edward Charity, violins; Jack Flores, cello; DK Issitt, contrabass; Huizi Zhang, piano; Jeremy Avalos, guitar; Michael Douty, conductor"
---
**Ondřej Štochl** (b. 1975) studied viola and composition at the Prague Conservatoire. He continued his composition studies under Marek Kopelent at the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague. His works include chamber and orchestral pieces, sometimes with voice and electronics. Since 2002, he has been the Artistic Leader as well as violist of the renowned “Ensemble Konvergence“ in Prague. In this role, he curates the Ensemble’s concert series and festival projects (Brno International Music Festival, Prague Spring Festival, Mélos-Étos Bratislava, Unerhörte Musik Berlin). He also took part in ISCM World Music Days in Hong-Kong. His works have been commissioned by leading orchestras and ensembles such as Prague Modern, Brno Contemporary Orchestra, and Berg Orchestra. He is a Professor of Composition at the Jan Deyl Conservatory in Prague. He has an extended discography, and some of his most recent music can be heard his latest CD, _on the way to kindness_. [www.ondrejstochl.info](www.ondrejstochl.info).

|||

**_7/whispers_** is a spatially conceived septet in which the most important things occur in a whisper. The original Czech title "Šeptet" is a play on words, a combination of "Šeptat" (to whisper) and "Septet". It increasingly appears to me that, these days, human communication begins and ends with stock phrases. Such phrases are polite and courteous, because they are devoid of all true emotion. Instead of proper understanding, we achieve the exact opposite. We misapprehend others; we put up defenses to protect ourselves against their sincerity. We start to think in platitudes when we are toddlers. If we want to perceive others, we have to study the subtle signs: the hushed, unspoken gestures, involuntary signals, things that slip out by chance. And what has my *7/whispers* in common with all this? Its main theme is receptiveness, a fragile microclimate for whispered communication. But we need to do more than just whisper... Commissioned by the Prague Spring festival in 2014.
