---
composer: "Hsu Chia Yu"
composition: "Shan Ko"
date: 2009
performers: "Aaron King Vaughn, conductor"
---
Born in Banqiao, Taiwan, **Chia Yu Hsu** was the winner of Lakond prize from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, Left Coast Chamber Ensemble composition contest, grand prize from Symphony Number One, Suzanne and Lee Ettelson Composerís Awards, 2016 and 2013 IAWM Search for New Music, Copland House Award, music+culture 2009 International Competition for Composers, the Sorel Organizationís 2nd International Composition Competition, the 7th USA International Harp Composition Competition, ASCAP Morton Gould Young Composerís Awards, the Maxfield Parrish Composition Contest, the RenÈe B. Fisher Foundation Composer Awards among others. Her work has been performed by the London Sinfonietta, the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, the San Francisco Symphony, the Nashville Symphony, the Toledo Symphony, the American Composers Orchestra, the Cabrillo Festival Orchestra, the Flagstaff Symphony Orchestra, Aspen Music Festival Contemporary Ensemble, Eighth Blackbird, Ciompi Quartet, and Prism Quartet.|||**_Shan Ko_** employs material derived from Hakka music. There are various types of Hakka mountain songs, with an abundance of lyrical content. The song-type associated with my piece is called Lao-shan-ko (old mountain songs), which are among the oldest and simplest of Hakka folk song-types. Lao-shan-ko is the name of one such tune, which I have referenced. I am particularly drawn by its use of the minor triad and the libre feeling of the original tune. As a result, many minor triads juxtaposing with the predominantly pentatonic harmony are deployed to explore various timbres between different instrumental groups in the piece. Many times, the melodic fragments are stretched and heavily decorated. Sometimes the echoes of those fragments are produced between instruments. It is the spirit of freedom and spacious acoustics in the mountains that I have tried capture.