---
composer: "Lillios Elainie"
composition: "Sleeps Undulating Tide"
date: 2016
performers: "Eva Amsler, flute"
---
**Elainie Lillios**’s music reflects her fascination with listening, sound, space, time, immersion and anecdote. Her compositions include stereo, multi-channel, and Ambisonic fixed media works, instrument(s) with live interactive electronics, collaborative experimental audio/visual animations, and installations. She was a 2013-14 Fulbright Scholar in Thessaloniki, Greece, and her music has received numerous international and national awards and performances. Elainie’s acousmatic music is available on Entre Espaces, produced by Empreintes DIGITALes. Other pieces appear on Centaur, MSR Classics, StudioPANaroma, La Muse en Circuit, New Adventures in Sound Art, SEAMUS, Irritable Hedgehog and Leonardo Music Journal. Elainie serves a Director of Composition Activities for the SPLICE institute ([www.splice.institute](www.splice.institute)) and also as Interim Associate Dean and Professor of Composition at Bowling Green State University in Ohio. [elillios.com](http://www.elillios.com)

|||

**_Sleep’s Undulating Tide_** takes its inspiration from Margaret Atwood’s poem "Variations on the Word Sleep." Her expressive text reveals desire, intimacy, and longing --  "I would like to sleep with you, to enter your sleep as its smooth dark wave slides over my head." Atwood’s imagery progresses through a dream-like state where she desires to accompany her lover through the beauty of a "lucent wavering forest of bluegreen leaves" and then into a foreboding darkness "towards the cave where you must descend, toward your worst fear." Her continuing journey  references Orpheus’s descent into hell to rescue Eurydice by yearning to "become the boat that would row you back carefully." Atwood’s evocative poem ends with a simple yet profound expression to "be the air that inhabits you for a moment only," with its intent to be simultaneously unimportant yet vital. _Sleeps Undulating Tide_ was commissioned by Phoenix Concerts for Lindsey Goodman and is dedicated to her with appreciation and admiration. 