---
composer: "Kubík Ladislav"
composition: "Subterranean River"
date: 2017
performers: "Benjamin Sung, violin"
notes: 
---
**Ladislav Kubík**, eminent Czech-American composer and Professor of Composition at the Florida State University College of Music since 1991, passed away in his sleep on October 27, 2017. Kubík's first orchestral works, composed in his teenage years, received their premieres at the Dvořák Hall at the Rudolphinum in Prague. As a student at the Prague Academy of Music, he received diplomas in composition and music theory in the early 1970s, followed by the "Aspiranture of Arts" in composition in 1980. He was the recipient of many awards and prizes, including first prize in UNESCO’s International Rostrum of Composers Competition, first prize in the International Franz Kafka Composition Competition, first prize in the National Association of College Wind and Percussion Instructors Composition Contest, two Florida Arts Council Individual Artist Fellowships, and (in 2010) a Guggenheim Fellowship.

Prior to his arrival at FSU, Kubík taught at the Prague Conservatory, at Charles University in Prague, at the Université d'Orsay, and at the University of South Florida. In 1994 he established the Czech-American Summer Music Institute in Prague and taught there annually for two decades; in 1995 he founded the Ladislav Kubík International Prize in Composition, supported by Florida State University, which drew entries from around the world. Kubík's own compositions have been performed in nearly thirty countries and have been widely released on commercial recordings. He was a member of the American Composers Forum, the Music Teachers National Association, the Society of Composers Inc., the Association of Czech Musicians and Musicologists, and the Society of Czech Composers. He will be fondly remembered as a gifted composer, a warm and supportive colleague, and a tremendously insightful and encouraging teacher to generations of students.

|||

My relationship with Ladia was initially one of real estate. His studio is at the far end of this building, on the third floor. When I first started here I was in a studio at the other end of that hallway, and then after two years, I moved down next to where he was, to be his neighbor. I got to know him just because we would meet in passing, but I never really spoke with him...we talked every now and then about music we had heard, concerts we had been to. And then at the beginning of last year, he very sheepishly came up to me and said, "I hope you don't mind, I've written you a piece." And we had initially planned to play it in November of last year. Obviously those plans were put aside, so this is the first time I'll be playing the piece he apologized for writing for me. Getting to know him as it were through this piece, I regret not getting to know him personally when I had the chance. So I hope he enjoys this performance, wherever he is. – Ben Sung, remarks from the stage prior to the premier of _**Subterranean River**_ during a memorial concert for Ladislav Kubík