---
composer: "Kilstofte Mark"
composition: "The White Album"
subtitles: ["I. White", "II. The Mad Scene"]
date: 2014
performers: "Feryal Qudourah, soprano; Ayça Çetin, flute; Katsuya Yuasa, clarinet; Dani Hoisington, violin; Aleksa Pereverseva, cello; YingYing Wang, piano; Andrew Bockman, percussion; Rachel Friedman, conductor"
---
**Mark Kilstofte** is "admired as a composer of lyrical line, engaging harmony, strong, dramatic gesture and keen sensitivity to sound, shape and event." Praised by the San Francisco Chronicle as “exciting and beautiful, consistently gripping,” his music has garnered a growing number of awards and honors including the Rome Prize, the Guggenheim Fellowship, ASCAP’s Rudolf Nissim Award, and the Goddard Lieberson Fellowship and Charles Ives Scholarship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters. His music, performed regularly throughout North America and Europe, has been featured on NPR’s Performance Today and From the Top and heard in concert halls from Moscow to Bangkok. Kilstofte is a graduate of St. Olaf College and The University of Michigan. He currently teaches composition at Furman University and is a visiting professor at the University of Oslo’s Center for Ibsen Studies, where he is writing an opera based on Ibsen’s Brand. His music is published by the Newmatic Press.

|||

I began to assemble the poems of **_The White Album_** during a residency at Copland House where I poured through hundreds of poems before selecting those by four Americans (Mark Strand, James Merrill, Linda Pastan and Erica Funkhouser). The cycle’s primary unifying element is the color white, which appears at least once in each poem. But the poems share other themes, most notably love, loss, life and death, if not some expectation of renewal. As I began to work with them in earnest I was struck by their common imagery: trees (leaves, branches, limbs), laundry (sheets, towels, clothes), light (sun, moon, morning, night), weather (snow, ice, cloud-clot, lightning) and windows with their views on internal and external worlds, to name just a few. There are musical motifs as well. Of course many of these similarities can be traced to their association with the color white, but there is a kinship that runs much, much deeper. As Mark Strand’s poem concludes, “All things are one.” The performance on this festival will include the first two songs, "White" and "The Mad Scene."
