---
composer: "McLoskey Lansing"
composition: "What We Do is Secret"
date: 2011
performers: "Rick Clary, conductor"
---
Described as "a major talent and a deep thinker with a great ear" and "a distinctive voice in American music,” **Lansing McLoskey** has had his music performed in sixteen countries on six continents. He has won more than two dozen national & international awards, including the prestigious Goddard Lieberson Fellowship from the American Academy of Arts & Letters, the International Joint Wind Quintet Project Competition, and most recently the 2014 Red Note Festival Composition Competition and an Aaron Copland Grant. Among his dozens of commissions are those the FROMM Foundation, Meet The Composer, National Endowment for the Arts, Barlow Foundation, and Pew Charitable Trusts. Current commissions include works for ensemberlino vocale and Berlin PianoPercussion. Professor at the University of Miami, McLoskey’s music is released on Albany, Wergo Schallplatten, Capstone, Tantara, and Beauport Classics and published by Theodore Presser Co., American Composers Press, and Subito Music & Odhecaton Z Music.

|||

"...the only truly significant and meaningful work for solo brass quintet and wind ensemble composed to date. **_What We Do Is Secret_** is sophisticated, gripping, abstract yet engaging, sometimes hauntingly beautiful, and filled with virtuosity. This is American music at its best - imaginative, challenging, powerful, and direct." ― Eric Hewitt, Director, Boston Conservatory Wind Ensemble. "[*What We Do Is Secret*] is a very intriguing and unique work, both in terms of inspiration and execution. Thanks so much for avoiding the clichés and formulas we hear in so much band/wind ensemble writing these days....very original and highly imaginative!” ― Col. Michael J. Colburn, Director, United States Marine Band. *What We Do Is Secret* is a concerto for brass quintet & wind ensemble, commissioned by the Barlow Endowment for Triton Brass & a consortium of wind ensembles. The work has won four national and international awards, and is released on *The Unheard Music* CD (Albany Records, 2013).